We thank the reviewers for their comments and have revised the manuscript
accordingly. More specifically, our response to the reviewer's questions
is as follows. We number our responses to the individual questions raised
to allow for ease of cross referencing.


Report 1:

> Can we assume that the presence of a second star nearby should have
> just a minor effect?. To be more specific: should the central density
> values of a boson star really be unaffected by the presence of a
> close companion?.

(1) We can only rigorously conclude that the central density values
of a boson star are unaffected by the companion in the limit of
infinite separation. It is for this reason that we have studied
sequences of collisions for varying initial separation and used
the asymptotic results as the baseline for our comparison of the
different types of initial data.

For finite separations, we do not have a rigorous argument for the
expected effect on a boson star's central density. The tidal forces
exert an anisotropic perturbation of the pressure at the star's center
and we expect the star's reaction in terms of a change in density
to depend on the equation of state. We note, however, that our Fig.9
presents empirical evidence in support of the hypothesis that at leading
order the central density indeed remains unaffected by the tidal force:
For the corrected initial data, the central scalar field amplitude
(to leading order the square root of the energy density)
remains constant throughout most of the infall period
and identical to that of a single boson star in isolation. A "wrong"
central density, instead, induces the spurious oscillations
or collapse dynamics that we observe in the evolutions of non-corrected
initial data. Finally, we note that our correction also preserves
the energy density at leading order only; non-linear effects still
allow for small changes in the central energy density orders of
magnitude below the percent level.

TODO: Check to see place where we can clarify the text. It'd be nice to
say "we have adjusted the text in Sec.?? to clarify this point more
strongly in the text".


Report 2:

> On the one hand there is a lot of work that went into this
> obviously. The various parts are clearly written and the whole paper
> is easy to read and follow. On the other hand, not a lot of what
> is presented is new. Half of the paper is more a review of already
> known material (BBSN, boson stars). Concerning the core of the
> paper, that is the computing of the initial data, I also have a
> problem. This is not a surprise that the superposition of two boson
> stars does not lead to very good initial data, the constraints
> equations being non-linear. I found that the proposed cure is also
> not very satisfactory (and not new either).

(2) While we agree that the opening part summarizes a fair amount
of already known material (which we decided to include in rather
comprehensive form for self consistency and also for future
referencing), our article contains a considerable amount of new and
"first" results:

* To the best of our knowledge, our work reports the first
  boson star collisions (of any form) with convergence analysis
  and quantitative uncertainty estimates -- both critical if we
  ever wish to employ boson-star wave signals in a quantitative
  analysis of LIGO-Virgo data.

* Our work presents the first exploration of the errors and
  their magnitude of using superposed initial data in boson-star
  binary collisions. We note in this context that (as far as we
  are aware), *all* boson star binary modeling prior to our paper
  has employed the plainly superposed initial data. Our work
  therefore also represents the first boson-star binary simulations
  using improved initial data.

* While the lack of rigor of superposed initial data is indeed not
  surprising, the dramatic degree of contamination thus incurred
  was new for us and at least one of us (Sperhake)
  unexpected. The fact that all previous work of this type has used
  these ill-suited initial data, clearly demonstrates that the
  severity of their limitations is news not only to us but most
  of the boson-star binary community.

> Also the paper is only concerned with non-rotating bosons stars.

(3) Recent numerical results have presented considerable evidence
suggesting that rotating scalar-field boson stars are not physically
stable. We note, however, that our proposed remedy for the initial
data would require no modification in its application to spinning
boson-star collisions.

> It would have been much more satisfactory if the authors had
> proposed a real cure to the initial data problem, solving explicitly
> the constrain equations for instance (I know this is easier said
> than done).

(4) A point we may not have made sufficiently clear in the original
manuscript is that we do not regard our proposed remedy as a
competition for a constraint solving approach. On the other hand,
we do not regard the constraint solving on its own an ideal
solution either. While a solution of the constraints projects our
initial data onto the hypersurface of constraint-satisfying
initial data, it does not guarantee in any way how closely these
data represent a physically plausible initial state. A better
solution, in our opinion, consists of employing our modification
as a preconditioner to a constraint solving procedure. We plan
to explore this calculation in future work but, as the reviewer
rightly states, this is a highly non-trivial exercise that will
require a good deal more time.

We have added to our conclusion a sentence to emphasize
the importance of adding our remedy irrespective of whether or
not an initial data construction uses an elliptic solver for
the entire set of constraints.
#TODO: Add this.
#DONE!


Report 3:

> The method of [1] of improving the binary BS initial data is
> somewhat limited in scope to a specific configuration of the binary.
> Therefore, the relevance of this approach is relatively marginal.
> This drawback is mentioned in the summary/conclusions but not in
> the introduction/abstract, which might be misleading for readers.

We have added explicit statements to the abstract and introduction
to note the limitations of our approach.
#TODO: Do this!
#DONE!

> On the technical side, I do not think it makes sense to consider
> the time evolution of the direct superposition of BS at all. The
> initial perturbation of individual BS and significant constraint
> violation disqualifies pure superposition initial data as physically
> (and mathematically) relevant.  I am not very surprised that improved
> initial conditions, which reduce the initial constraint violation,
> lead to more physically desirable evolutions. I think the paper
> should concentrate more on the improved data and their subsequent
> developments.

We fully agree with the reviewer on the unsatisfactory character of
the pure superposition of individual boson-star initial data.
Nevertheless, as mentioned above, to the best of our knowledge,
all previous boson-star binary modeling has used this type of
data. We therefore regard our study as an important and necessary
(if not all that surprising) message of caution against the use of
pure superposition data in as cavalier a fashion as appears to
have prevailed prior to our work.

We furthermore added a more extended discussion on the further
development of our improved data regarding in particular its
extension to arbitrary mass ratios.
TODO: add this.

> - The abstract needs to be updated ('we argue that this vulnerability
> is universal' - an argument based on what? and in what sense
> universal?; `up to a 6th-order-polynomial potential' - where is it
> discussed?)

We have removed the claim of universality from the abstract and
rephrased the character of the scalar potential in less technical
terms, rather focussing on the physical character of the corresponding
stellar models.
#TODO: Do this!
#DONE!

> - Why these specific configurations (Fig. 1) were picked? Why not
> compare considerably different, compact and squishy BS for each
> model?

Our choice was motivated by the need to study the effects on as
different types of boson stars as possible; hence the choice of
a highly compact and a highly squishy model. We note that for
the infall dynamics of a given boson star in a collision, the nature
of the companion is not important (to leading order, the companion
is a pointlike source thanks to Birkhoff's theorem). For example,
in a mixed collision starting with the plain superposition of one
compact and one squishy boson star, the former would be perturbed
in the same way as by another compact star and would spuriously
collapse to a black hole as it does in our figure 9. To demonstrate
this more explicitly, we have compared the binary dynamics with those
of artificially perturbed single boson stars (see also Fig.9).

> - The citation list is biased toward the NR/astrophysics community;
> it omits more rigorous works on the topic of BS.

We have added references to some analytic work in Sec.1. We will be
happy to consider citing any further analytic work on boson star binaries
that the reviewer can bring to our attention.

> - Fig. 4, Please add the value of Q2. Correct h3 (missing M).

Thank you for spotting these; both have been corrected/added.

> - Fig. 7 and 8: What is MR\psi? I guess the label should read
> M\Re\psi? Unfortunately, the clarity of presentation of the data
> on these figures is rather low.

The labels are actually correct, but we agree that they are confusing
and have fixed them accordingly. $R$ is the extraction radius
and is added as a factor here to compensate for the 1/R fall off of
the gravitational-wave signal. We have added to the caption of
Fig.7 that $R$ denotes the extraction radius. The (2,0) mode
of the Newman-Penrose scalar is purely real for the configurations
reported here. But this is more coincidental, so we followed the
reviewers notation and added the "Re" for real part, noting in the
caption of Fig.7 that the imaginary part vanishes.

> - What does 'a non-interacting potential' mean?

We have replaced "non-interacting potential" with "potential
V_min" and also explicitly reference Eq.(24) where
the potential is given.

> - Fig. 2 Better vertical arrangement?

TODO: Thomas, any chance to add a bit of vertical space between
the good and the bad cases? Use the black line as separator?
#DONE

> - p. 13 Last paragraph:  discussion of constraint violation and
> physical relevance of a solution is not very clean.

We have modified the paragraph for clarification.
TODO: Clarify the "have drifted" sentence which I also find a bit unclear.
Use the hand written suggestion in the printed draft.

> I believe there is new and interesting material here to merit
> publication, as soon as the authors have addressed the previous
> comments made by the referees. In addition, as a further suggestion,
> I think it would be interesting to investigate and mention whether
> a similar trick would work for asymmetrical configurations.

We have added a discussion of the generalization to asymmetrical
configurations to the conclusions.
TODO: write this.


